# Simulator

This will set up Underwater Robotics @ Berkeley's team simulator.

# Mac Instructions

It's necessary to differentiate between running commands in the Docker container and on your computer. Prepending commands with `container>` will mean it's run inside the container and prepending commands with `local>` will mean it's run outside the container. `docker exec -it urab-sim bash` is used to transition to running commands in the container (introduced later).

For example:
```
container> echo I'm supposed to be run in the container!
local> echo I'm NOT supposed to be run in the container! Run me in terminal without doing anything fancy!
```

## --Installation--

#### Install Docker Desktop
Install from [here](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/). This is for running Gazebo/the simulator in an Ubuntu environment even though you're using Mac. Verify installation with
```
local> docker --version
```

#### Install VNC Viewer for Google Chrome
Install from [here](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/vnc%C2%AE-viewer-for-google-ch/iabmpiboiopbgfabjmgeedhcmjenhbla?hl=en). This is for viewing the GUI generated by the Docker process later.

#### Pull this git repository
```
# cd to a folder where you want to keep this forever
local> git clone https://github.com/berkeleyauv/simulator.git
```

#### Build and start up the Docker image
Build the docker image in the repo and name it urab-sim. This can take 5-10 minutes without cache.
```
local> cd simulator
local> docker build -t urab-sim .
```

## --Starting the simulator--

#### Open Docker Desktop
Search for the application on your computer and let it start up. The icon should appear in your toolbar on the top right.

#### Start the Docker process
Run the docker image to start the docker process while setting up port forwarding from 5900 to 5900 for vnc connections later
```
local> docker run -p 5900:5900 -d -v="/tmp/.ros/:/root/.ros/" --name=urab-sim urab-sim
```

#### Enter a bash session in the Docker container
This will allow you to run commands in terminal as if you had Ubuntu, ROS, Gazebo, and all simulator dependencies installed.

```
local> docker exec -it urab-sim bash
```

#### Set up a VNC display
We've got a handy dandy script for this.

```
container> cd ~/catkin_ws/src
container> ./start_vnc
```
You can ctrl+C out of the text without worry because these processes are started in the background.

#### Start simulating
Use `roslaunch` to start simulating a world. The syntax is `roslaunch <package name> <launch_filename.launch>`. Here's an example that launches the full RoboSub world:

```
container> roslaunch vortex_descriptions robosub_world.launch
```

#### Visualize!
Open VNC Viewer for Google Chrome.
Enter the following information:
```
Address: localhost:5900
Picture Quality: Automatic
```
Click Connect! The unencripted connection is fine ;)


# Ubuntu Instructions

## --Installation--

#### Pull this git repository
```
# cd to a folder where you want to keep this forever
local> git clone https://github.com/berkeleyauv/simulator.git
```

#### Follow the setup instructions from the Dockerfile, but adjust accordingly
#### to Ubuntu
For the commands under the comment "Install VNC and UUV Simulator packages",
run each command separately, using sudo.

Each command also needs to be run separately for the rest of the Dockerfile.

The very last line is unnecessary.


## --Starting the simulator--

Use `roslaunch` to start simulating a world. The syntax is `roslaunch <package name> <launch_filename.launch>`. Here's an example that launches the full RoboSub world:

```
container> roslaunch vortex_descriptions robosub_world.launch
```

# Debugging
See the "Simulator Progress" doc in the team Google Drive in the Software/Perception/ folder

# References
[Vortex NTNU's uuv-simulator](https://github.com/vortexntnu/uuv-simulator)

[UUVSimulator](https://uuvsimulator.github.io/)
```
@inproceedings{Manhaes_2016,
    doi = {10.1109/oceans.2016.7761080},
    url = {https://doi.org/10.1109%2Foceans.2016.7761080},
    year = 2016,
    month = {sep},
    publisher = {{IEEE}},
    author = {Musa Morena Marcusso Manh{\~{a}}es and Sebastian A. Scherer and Martin Voss and Luiz Ricardo Douat and Thomas Rauschenbach},
    title = {{UUV} Simulator: A Gazebo-based package for underwater intervention and multi-robot simulation},
    booktitle = {{OCEANS} 2016 {MTS}/{IEEE} Monterey}
}
```
